README.md, before:

﻿# React Native Map Clustering

React Native module that handles map clustering for you.

Works with **Expo** and **react-native-cli** 🚀

This repo is proudly sponsored by:

<a href="https://nativeforms.com" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/venits/native-forms/master/assets/sponsor.png" width="350"><br />
  Build forms, surveys and polls for React Native apps.
</a>

## Demo

![Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/venits/react-native-map-clustering/assets/assets/demo.gif)

## Spiral

### Converting same locations in spiral view (done automatically)

![Spiral](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/venits/react-native-map-clustering/assets/assets/spider_lib.png)

## Installation

```js
// clustering module
npm install react-native-map-clustering --save

// and only if you haven't installed it before
npm install react-native-maps --save
```

### Full example

Example of how to use clustering.

```js
import React from "react";
import MapView from "react-native-map-clustering";
import { Marker } from "react-native-maps";

const INITIAL_REGION = {
  latitude: 52.5,
  longitude: 19.2,
  latitudeDelta: 8.5,
  longitudeDelta: 8.5
};

const App = () => (
  <MapView initialRegion={INITIAL_REGION} style={{ flex: 1 }}>
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 52.4, longitude: 18.7 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 52.1, longitude: 18.4 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 52.6, longitude: 18.3 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 51.6, longitude: 18.0 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 53.1, longitude: 18.8 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 52.9, longitude: 19.4 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 52.2, longitude: 21 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 52.4, longitude: 21 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 51.8, longitude: 20 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 51.8, longitude: 20 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 51.8, longitude: 20 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 51.8, longitude: 20 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 51.8, longitude: 20 }} />
  </MapView>
);

export default App;
```

## Props

| Name                                        | Type                  | Default                                      | Note                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------------------- | -------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **clusterColor**                            | String                | #00B386                                      | Background color of cluster.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| **clusterTextColor**                        | String                | #FFFFFF                                      | Color of text in cluster.                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| **onClusterPress(cluster, markers)**        | Function              | () => {}                                     | Allows you to control cluster on click event. Function returns information about cluster and its markers.                                                                                                                       |
| **width**                                   | Number                | window width                                 | map's width.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| **height**                                  | Number                | window height                                | map's height.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **radius**                                  | Number                | window.width \* 6%                           | [SuperCluster radius](https://github.com/mapbox/supercluster#options).                                                                                                                                                          |
| **extent**                                  | Number                | 512                                          | [SuperCluster extent](https://github.com/mapbox/supercluster#options).                                                                                                                                                          |
| **minZoom**                                 | Number                | 1                                            | [SuperCluster minZoom](https://github.com/mapbox/supercluster#options).                                                                                                                                                         |
| **maxZoom**                                 | Number                | 20                                           | [SuperCluster maxZoom](https://github.com/mapbox/supercluster#options).                                                                                                                                                         |
| **preserveClusterPressBehavior**            | Bool                  | false                                        | If set to true, after clicking on cluster it will not be zoomed.                                                                                                                                                                |
| **edgePadding**                             | Object                | { top: 50, left: 50, bottom: 50, right: 50 } | Edge padding for [react-native-maps's](https://github.com/react-community/react-native-maps/blob/master/docs/mapview.md#methods) `fitToCoordinates` method, called in `onClusterPress` for fitting to pressed cluster children. |
| **animationEnabled**                        | Bool                  | true                                         | Animate imploding/exploding of clusters' markers and clusters size change. **Works only on iOS**.                                                                                                                               |
| **layoutAnimationConf**                     | LayoutAnimationConfig | LayoutAnimation.Presets.spring               | `LayoutAnimation.Presets.spring`                                                                                                                                                                                                | Custom Layout animation configuration object for clusters animation during implode / explode **Works only on iOS**. |
| **onRegionChangeComplete(region, markers)** | Function              | () => {}                                     | Called when map's region changes. In return you get current region and markers data.                                                                                                                                            |
| **onMarkersChange(markers)**                | Function              | () => {}                                     | Called when markers change. In return you markers data.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **mapRef(ref)**                             | Function              | () => {}                                     | Return reference to `react-native-maps` MapView component.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **clusteringEnabled**                       | Bool                  | true                                         | Set true to enable and false to disable clustering.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **renderCluster**                           | Function              | undefined                                    | Enables you to render custom cluster with custom styles and logic.                                                                                                                                                              |
| **spiderLineColor**                           | String              | #FF0000                                    | Enables you to set color of spider line which joins spiral location with center location.                                                                                                                                                              |

## Support

Feel free to create issues and pull requests. I will try to provide as much support as possible over Github. In case of questions or problems, contact me at:
[t.przybyl@venits.com](t.przybyl@venits.com)

### Happy Coding 💖

Commit message:

Added ability to disable spiral view mode. Now it disabled by default and could be enabled by prop "spiralViewEnabled"

README.md, after:

﻿# React Native Map Clustering

React Native module that handles map clustering for you.

Works with **Expo** and **react-native-cli** 🚀

This repo is proudly sponsored by:

<a href="https://nativeforms.com" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/venits/native-forms/master/assets/sponsor.png" width="350"><br />
  Build forms, surveys and polls for React Native apps.
</a>

## Demo

![Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/venits/react-native-map-clustering/assets/assets/demo.gif)

## Spiral

### Converting same locations in spiral view (disabled by default)

![Spiral](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/venits/react-native-map-clustering/assets/assets/spider_lib.png)

## Installation

```js
// clustering module
npm install react-native-map-clustering --save

// and only if you haven't installed it before
npm install react-native-maps --save
```

### Full example

Example of how to use clustering.

```js
import React from "react";
import MapView from "react-native-map-clustering";
import { Marker } from "react-native-maps";

const INITIAL_REGION = {
  latitude: 52.5,
  longitude: 19.2,
  latitudeDelta: 8.5,
  longitudeDelta: 8.5
};

const App = () => (
  <MapView initialRegion={INITIAL_REGION} style={{ flex: 1 }}>
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 52.4, longitude: 18.7 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 52.1, longitude: 18.4 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 52.6, longitude: 18.3 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 51.6, longitude: 18.0 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 53.1, longitude: 18.8 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 52.9, longitude: 19.4 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 52.2, longitude: 21 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 52.4, longitude: 21 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 51.8, longitude: 20 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 51.8, longitude: 20 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 51.8, longitude: 20 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 51.8, longitude: 20 }} />
    <Marker coordinate={{ latitude: 51.8, longitude: 20 }} />
  </MapView>
);

export default App;
```

## Props

| Name                                        | Type                  | Default                                      | Note                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------------------- | -------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **clusterColor**                            | String                | #00B386                                      | Background color of cluster.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| **clusterTextColor**                        | String                | #FFFFFF                                      | Color of text in cluster.                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| **onClusterPress(cluster, markers)**        | Function              | () => {}                                     | Allows you to control cluster on click event. Function returns information about cluster and its markers.                                                                                                                       |
| **width**                                   | Number                | window width                                 | map's width.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| **height**                                  | Number                | window height                                | map's height.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **radius**                                  | Number                | window.width \* 6%                           | [SuperCluster radius](https://github.com/mapbox/supercluster#options).                                                                                                                                                          |
| **extent**                                  | Number                | 512                                          | [SuperCluster extent](https://github.com/mapbox/supercluster#options).                                                                                                                                                          |
| **minZoom**                                 | Number                | 1                                            | [SuperCluster minZoom](https://github.com/mapbox/supercluster#options).                                                                                                                                                         |
| **maxZoom**                                 | Number                | 20                                           | [SuperCluster maxZoom](https://github.com/mapbox/supercluster#options).                                                                                                                                                         |
| **preserveClusterPressBehavior**            | Bool                  | false                                        | If set to true, after clicking on cluster it will not be zoomed.                                                                                                                                                                |
| **edgePadding**                             | Object                | { top: 50, left: 50, bottom: 50, right: 50 } | Edge padding for [react-native-maps's](https://github.com/react-community/react-native-maps/blob/master/docs/mapview.md#methods) `fitToCoordinates` method, called in `onClusterPress` for fitting to pressed cluster children. |
| **animationEnabled**                        | Bool                  | true                                         | Animate imploding/exploding of clusters' markers and clusters size change. **Works only on iOS**.                                                                                                                               |
| **layoutAnimationConf**                     | LayoutAnimationConfig | LayoutAnimation.Presets.spring               | `LayoutAnimation.Presets.spring`                                                                                                                                                                                                | Custom Layout animation configuration object for clusters animation during implode / explode **Works only on iOS**. |
| **onRegionChangeComplete(region, markers)** | Function              | () => {}                                     | Called when map's region changes. In return you get current region and markers data.                                                                                                                                            |
| **onMarkersChange(markers)**                | Function              | () => {}                                     | Called when markers change. In return you markers data.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **mapRef(ref)**                             | Function              | () => {}                                     | Return reference to `react-native-maps` MapView component.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **clusteringEnabled**                       | Bool                  | true                                         | Set true to enable and false to disable clustering.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **renderCluster**                           | Function              | undefined                                    | Enables you to render custom cluster with custom styles and logic.                                                                                                                                                              |
| **spiderLineColor**                         | String                | #FF0000                                      | Enables you to set color of spider line which joins spiral location with center location.                                                                                                                                         |
| **spiralViewEnabled**                       | Bool                  | false                                        | Enables spiral view mode                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

## Support

Feel free to create issues and pull requests. I will try to provide as much support as possible over Github. In case of questions or problems, contact me at:
[t.przybyl@venits.com](t.przybyl@venits.com)

### Happy Coding 💖
